To help you understand why prompt engineering
is so important, I'm going to give you
an initial example that shows where we tap into really complex
capabilities of ChatGPT. But you can also do this with other large language models. The way we tap into these capabilities is
by using a pattern, a pattern that we can use
when we're writing prompts to get into these really
interesting abilities of the large language models. Now, if you know these
patterns and we'll talk about them in detail
in this course, you'll be more effective
in writing prompts. You'll be able to do things that other people won't be
able to do as easily. Now, I'm going to
give you an example. It's going to use something
called the persona pattern. Now I'm not going to
go into detail about the persona pattern
at this point. But basically it's a pattern that we see all over the place. You'll see lots of
different examples of this pattern out there on the Internet where
people talk about using it to do lots and lots
of different things. But the basic idea
is you're going to ask the large language
model in this case ChatGPT, you're going to ask it to act
like a particular persona. Now what does that
mean? It means like you're going
to ask it to act like a person or some
inanimate object, or an animal, or some system. There's all kinds of ways
that you can use this. It's really interesting. But we're going to use
it in this example to tap into a persona
that is close to me, but one that I know
nothing about the domain. One of the really useful things about the persona pattern, as you can imagine, if
you needed to go phone an expert to get help
on some problem, you know who you would call but you don't know
exactly what they would tell you or how they
would analyze your problem, and so I wanted something in the way I know an expert that I could
go to in this case, my wife is a speech
language pathologist. I can have her look at the output and tell
me how good it was. But I know nothing about being a speech language pathologist
or how to do their job. I imagined that when
my son was three, he was not saying
things properly. I went to ChatGPT and I said act as a speech-language
pathologist. I'm going to tell you
what a three-year-old said and you will write
an assessment for me. The child said,
"I meed way woy." Now you can imagine
this might just me being a parent hearing
it incorrectly. The child's not pronouncing
things correctly. I don't know the right
way to even capture this, to even express what's
being said in words, the right way to do all of this. This is a complex problem
from my perspective. I don't know how to express
all of this in language, even to ask the
question properly. But I know I would go to a speech language pathologist and I would describe
this to him. I tried to think of something
that sounded like something my son might have said
at that point in time. What did ChatGPT say? Well, you notice first off, its output looks like a report. It says subject assessment of a three-year-old speech
sample, child's speech sample. "I meed way woy" has it in quotation marks and
it says assessment. Based on the provided
speech sample, it appears the child
may be experiencing some phonological and
articulation errors, which are common in
children around this age. I don't know what phonological or articulation errors are. I would not have known to ask
ChatGPT for these things. But based on this pattern that I'm using, this
persona pattern, I'm tapping into
this capability for ChatGPT to look at this and know what the right
things are to tell me. It says there's phonological
and articulation error. It says the child's utterance
appears to have errors and consonant production and possibly some difficulty
with syllable structure. It says consonant errors. It seems that the child is having difficulty with
the production of some consonant sounds
specifically the n and l sounds. The child said meed instead of need and woy instead of toy. Then it has in parentheses
it's assumption. It says assuming the
intended words were need and toy because you can remember
my speech sample was, I meed way woy, which my wife told me it wasn't
a very good example, may not be something that a
child would actually say. Despite that, it's
still figuring out if that's really
what the child said, this is probably what they
were intending to say and it's figuring that out and then it's telling me they're
having consonant errors. They're specifically having
trouble with n and l sounds. Then it goes on to say
syllable structure. The child's production
of the word way may indicate some difficulty with the correct syllable structure. It is possible that the
child intended to say play, but produced way instead, which suggests a substitution of the initial consonant cluster
pl with a single consonant w. This could be an example of a simplification process
called cluster reduction. I would not have known
how to ask ChatGPT to see if there was problem with syllable structure or
cluster reduction. But I used this pattern
of saying act as, and I said act as a speech language
pathologist and now I'm getting rich output that I wouldn't even know
how to ask for. Then it goes on to say
because by the way, if you want to do something really unpopular
as ChatGPT to produce an output that looks
like it's doing somebody's job and that's always a way to be very popular. I did this with my wife one morning and my wife was not very happy
because she was trying to get ready to go to
work and here I am saying ChatGPT is producing things that look like what you produce. One of her things that
she said to me was, if that was a three-year-old, I'd be telling the parents they probably don't need to worry, children's speech
is continuing to evolve and I'm paraphrasing
what she said. She said it much more
eloquently, but she was like, it's just giving you a way
overblown analysis of this. I said, yeah, but ChatGPT says
that too at the end, considering the child's age, it is important to remember that some speech sound errors are developmentally
appropriate and may resolve on their own with time. Of course, by that time she
was walking out the door because she wasn't ready to sit around in the morning and listen to me tell her that ChatGPT is doing what a speech
language pathologist does. Do I think it's going
to take her job? No. But do I think it has really vast and
powerful capabilities that we can tap into
with the right patterns? Absolutely. Do I think
it gives us the ability to focus on the things that maybe we really want
to spend our time on? My wife loves working with kids. She loves interacting
with them and trying to understand
how to help them. Writing reports,
maybe I'm not sure. I don't want to speak
too much for my wife, but I would guess it's maybe not her most favorite
part of the job. She really loves working with the kids and trying
to help the kids. You can imagine something
like this where it allows her to focus more on the things that she really cares about in the real-world. Maybe it can help her to
give form to her thought around the child's needs
and write these reports. I hope that you'll see
that with a little bit of the right structure
in our prompts, we can create these
really powerful ways of giving form to our ideas and our thoughts through large language
models like ChatGPT.